From NCR13@aol.com Wed Jan 06 03:25:27 1999
From: NCR13@aol.com
Message-ID: <f17610ef.3692d757@aol.com>
Date: Tue, 5 Jan 1999 22:24:07 EST
To: jandek@cs.nwu.edu
Subject: a Jandek article

I scored this article from Pulse magazine (Tower Records' giveaway thing) back
in July of '96 but had lost it in my cellar until today. It's called "You Want
Alternative?" by Irwin Chusid, and deals with the usual questionably-insane
artists: the Shaggs, Wesley Willis, Tiny Tim, and....Jandek! This may prove
informative or totally erroneous, but it is pretty amusing. Here it is,
unedited:

"How to describe Jandek? Like most amateur rock crits, start by comparing him
to the Beatles. Then strip away melody, catchy hooks, rhythm and harmony. Next
toss out vocal and instrumental ability, along with any trace of human emotion
other than pain. Aside from these deficiencies, he's EXACTLY like the Fab
Four. Or maybe the Velvet Underground, AFTER taxes.
"Jandek sounds like a muttering sleepwalker strumming an out-of-tune tennis
racket. His "music" is dark and gloomy, past the point of no return. It won't
make you sad; it will make you tense and uncomfortable. You'll love it or hate
it---and for every one of the former, there are a million of the latter.
Sample song titles: "Painted My Teeth", "Twelve Minutes Since February 32'nd"
(sic), "Janitor's Dead". He sometimes plays harmonica, sounding like Neil
Young having an asthma attack. Occasionally he's backed by a drummer who seems
to have no familiarity with the instrument, but simply pounds away
relentlessly with no ground beat. It's purgative. After five minutes of
listening to Jandek, ANYTHING sounds good!
"His real name is Sterling R. Smith, and he's based somewhere around Houston.
(Please don't call the one in the Houston phone book--it's not him.) Since
1978, Smith has issued at least 25 full-length 12-inch vinyl albums--no 7-inch
or 12-inch singles, no remixes, no cassettes, (until very recently) no CDs and
no videos. His albums contain no liner notes and there's no press kit. He does
not perform in public or grant interviews. His records rarely turn up in
stores, even in second-hand shops. Someone is pouring a lot of money into a
deep, dark hole.
"I was onto Smith from his first release, READY FOR THE HOUSE, and we
corresponded briefly in 1980-81. One of his notes implored: "Send me some
addresses of record stores...that deal in my music and I'll ship them free
boxes of my recordings. I need to move them." After several letters and a few
enigmatic phone conversations, we lost contact. He has continued to release at
least one album a year, all of which escape critical notice. Each, to quote
journalist and fan Byron Coley, "blows around the country like an old dead
leaf painted purple."

Message-ID: <19990126172243.16898.qmail@cs.nwu.edu>
Subject: More lyrics
To: jandek@cs.nwu.edu
From: Seth Tisue <s-tisue@nwu.edu>
Date: Tue, 26 Jan 1999 11:22:42 -0600

Here are the lyrics to Interstellar Discussion (1984), Nine-Thirty (1985),
and Blue Corpse (1987), courtesy of Ryan Hildebrand (thank you Ryan!).

These albums contain some of Jandek's most lyrically intense material
-- check out "This is a Death Dream", "Only Lover", "Rifle in the
Closet" (?! weird), etc.  Also of note is the Southern travelogue
spread across several songs on Nine-Thirty ("You people sure are
strange to a city boy from up north"?!).

[lyrics omitted; see website]
